[improve][doc] Simplify the Install section and promote a top-level "Installation" title (#17580)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/client-libraries-cpp.md

sidebar_label: "C++"
---

````mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
````

You can use a Pulsar C++ client to create producers, consumers, and readers.

All the methods in producer, consumer, and reader of a C++ client are thread-safe. You can read the Doxygen-generated [API docs](/api/cpp) for the C++ client

## Installation

Use one of the following methods to install a Pulsar C++ client.

> ### Brew

Reviewer: Should we add a link to `https://brew.sh/` so we can remind users to install brew in macOS?

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. I have an idea to add the link where keep the wording smooth, will update later.

Install the latest tagged version with the library and headers:

```bash
brew install libpulsar
```

For more information, read [libpulsar formula's homepage](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/libpulsar).

### Deb

1. Download any one of the Deb packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-devel">

```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client-devel@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
apt install ./apache-pulsar-client*.deb
```

Now, you can see Pulsar C++ client libraries installed under the `/usr/lib` directory.

### RPM

1. Download any one of the RPM packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

> 

Reviewer 2: Can explain this package here.  Refer: https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580/files#r971456416

> 

Reviewer 2: This package can be explained here. Refer: https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580#discussion_r971456416

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33416836/190299929-4f65c574-62a1-4c16-b0f7-f75f990dc6b2.png)

| [client-devel](@pulsar:deb:client-devel@) | [asc](@pulsar:dist_deb:client-devel@.asc),  [sha512](@pulsar:dist_deb:client-devel@.sha512) |
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command.
2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
apt install ./apache-pulsar-client*.deb
```

After you install DEB successfully, Pulsar libraries are in the `/usr/lib` directory.

### Build

If you want to build RPM and Debian packages from the latest master, follow the instructions below. You must run all the instructions at the root directory of your cloned Pulsar repository.

There are recipes that build RPM and Debian packages containing a
statically linked `libpulsar.so` / `libpulsarnossl.so` / `libpulsar.a` / `libpulsarwithdeps.a` with all required dependencies.

To build the C++ library packages, you need to build the Java packages first.

```shell
mvn install -DskipTests
```

#### RPM

To build the RPM inside a Docker container, use the command below. The RPMs are in the `pulsar-client-cpp/pkg/rpm/RPMS/x86_64/` path.

```shell
pulsar-client-cpp/pkg/rpm/docker-build-rpm.sh
```

| Package name | Content |
|-----|-----|

> | pulsar-client | Shared library `libpulsar.so` and `libpulsarnossl.so` |

Reviewer 2: Why remove this table? This table explains the differences between the individual packages.

Author: See https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580#discussion_r967677766.

Author: OK. I get your point. Will push a commit later. FYI - It's not a regression. Previously we don't talk about it in the installation section also.

Reviewer 2: I don't quite understand. For the user, he can choose these three packages to use, but we didn't introduce the difference between these three packages.

<img width="1291" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33416836/190299259-a328b0ce-9442-4c4e-8b45-80562cd9bc65.png">

Reviewer 3: I have the same question.

Reviewer 3: But just as tison said, it's not a regression, we can explain it in another PR.

> If you want to build the Pulsar C++ client from source code, read [these instructions](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp#compilation).

Author: See https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580#pullrequestreview-1105841168 and https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580#issuecomment-1245551732 for background.

@Anonymitaet could you help with reviewing this wording?

> If you want to build the Pulsar C++ client from source code, read [these instructions](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp#compilation).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For how to build Pulsar C++ client on different platforms, see [compliation](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp#compilation).
```

Thoughts?

Author: ```suggestion
For how to build Pulsar C++ client on different platforms from source code, see [compliation](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp#compilation).
```

Author: Add `from source code` word. Others accepted.

sidebar_label: "C++"
---

````mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
````

You can use a Pulsar C++ client to create producers, consumers, and readers.

All the methods in producer, consumer, and reader of a C++ client are thread-safe. You can read the Doxygen-generated [API docs](/api/cpp) for the C++ client

## Installation

Use one of the following methods to install a Pulsar C++ client.

### Brew

Install the latest tagged version with the library and headers:

```bash
brew install libpulsar
```

For more information, read [libpulsar formula's homepage](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/libpulsar).

### Deb

1. Download any one of the Deb packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

```bash

> wget @pulsar:deb:client@

Reviewer 3: Could you explain what does `@pulsar:deb:client@` mean? I see it doesn't change even in the preview page.

Author: It will be replaced with link like `https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=pulsar/pulsar-2.10.1/DEB/apache-pulsar-client.deb` according to the real version - since our document are versioned.

The actual resolving and replacing logic is somewhere within https://github.com/apache/pulsar-site. I suggest @urfreespace or @tuteng can give some inputs here. I'm confident that this URL is the correct one.

Reviewer 3: I think we'd better add it to the guide for document contributors.

```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client-devel@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
apt install ./apache-pulsar-client*.deb
```

Now, you can see Pulsar C++ client libraries installed under the `/usr/lib` directory.

### RPM

1. Download any one of the RPM packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-debuginfo">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client-debuginfo@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-devel">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client-devel@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
rpm -ivh apache-pulsar-client*.rpm
```

Now, you can see Pulsar C++ client libraries installed under the `/usr/lib` directory.

:::note

If you get an error like "libpulsar.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory" when starting a Pulsar client, you need to run `ldconfig` first.

:::

### Source

1. Clone the Pulsar repository and switch to the working directory `pulsar-client-cpp`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/apache/pulsar
cd pulsar
cd pulsar-client-cpp
```

2. Install dependencies:

<Tabs>

> <TabItem value="Linux">

Reviewer 3: In addition to "Linux", I think it's better to note this command is only available for Debian-based Linux distributions. Is there any way to add a note in the tab page?

Author: It's possible but I think the generate way is:

```
# Debian
...
# Centos
...
```

Since we'd like to link the build from source section to the code repo. I omit this suggestion.

sidebar_label: "C++"
---

````mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
````

You can use a Pulsar C++ client to create producers, consumers, and readers.

All the methods in producer, consumer, and reader of a C++ client are thread-safe. You can read the Doxygen-generated [API docs](/api/cpp) for the C++ client

> ## Installation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Installation

Use one of the following methods to install a Pulsar C++ client.
```

Add an introductory sentence providing background about the topic or main idea.

### Brew

Install the latest tagged version with the library and headers:

```bash
brew install libpulsar
```

For more information, read [libpulsar formula's homepage](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/libpulsar).

### Deb

1. Download any one of the Deb packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-devel">

```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client-devel@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
apt install ./apache-pulsar-client*.deb
```

Now, you can see Pulsar C++ client libraries installed under the `/usr/lib` directory.

### RPM

1. Download any one of the RPM packages:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-debuginfo">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client-debuginfo@
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-devel">

```bash
wget @pulsar:dist_rpm:client-devel@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Install the package using the following command:

```bash
rpm -ivh apache-pulsar-client*.rpm
```

Now, you can see Pulsar C++ client libraries installed under the `/usr/lib` directory.

:::note

> If you get the error like "libpulsar.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory" when starting Pulsar client, you need to run `ldconfig` first.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you get an error like "libpulsar.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory" when starting a Pulsar client, you need to run `ldconfig` first.
```

:::

### Source

1. Clone the Pulsar repository and switch to the working directory `pulsar-client-cpp`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/apache/pulsar
cd pulsar
cd pulsar-client-cpp
```

2. Install dependencies:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Linux">

```bash

> apt install cmake libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev liblog4cxx-dev libprotobuf-dev protobuf-compiler libboost-all-dev google-mock libgtest-dev libjsoncpp-dev

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
apt install cmake libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev libprotobuf-dev protobuf-compiler libboost-all-dev google-mock libgtest-dev
```

# libgtest-dev version is 1.18.0 or above
pushd /usr/src/googletest
sudo cmake .
sudo make
sudo cp ./googlemock/libgmock.a ./googlemock/gtest/libgtest.a /usr/lib/
popd

## libgtest-dev less than 1.18.0
# pushd /usr/src/gtest
# sudo cmake .
# sudo make
# sudo cp libgtest.a /usr/lib
# popd

pushd /usr/src/gmock
sudo cmake .
sudo make
sudo cp libgmock.a /usr/lib
popd
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macOS">

```bash

> brew install protobuf boost boost-python3 log4cxx googletest cmake openssl

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
brew install protobuf boost boost-python3 googletest cmake openssl
```

````mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
````

All the methods in producer, consumer, and reader of a C++ client are thread-safe.
You can use a Pulsar C++ client to create producers, consumers, and readers.

## Supported platforms
All the methods in producer, consumer, and reader of a C++ client are thread-safe. You can read the Doxygen-generated [API docs](/api/cpp) for the C++ client

Pulsar C++ client is supported on **Linux**, **macOS** and **Windows** platforms.
## Installation

Doxygen-generated API docs for the C++ client are available [here](/api/cpp).
### Brew

## Linux
Install the latest tagged version with the library and headers:

:::note

You can choose one of the following installation methods based on your needs: Compilation, Install RPM or Install Debian.

:::

### Compilation

#### System requirements

You need to install the following components before using the C++ client:

* [CMake](https://cmake.org/)
* [Boost](http://www.boost.org/)
* [Protocol Buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/) >= 3
* [libcurl](https://curl.se/libcurl/)

> * [Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest)

Author: Redundant. Included in the `Install dependencies:` tabs.

```shell
apt-get install cmake libssl-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev liblog4cxx-dev \
libprotobuf-dev protobuf-compiler libboost-all-dev google-mock libgtest-dev libjsoncpp-dev
```

3. Compile and install [Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest).
### Deb

```shell
# libgtest-dev version is 1.18.0 or above
cd /usr/src/googletest
sudo cmake .
sudo make
sudo cp ./googlemock/libgmock.a ./googlemock/gtest/libgtest.a /usr/lib/
1. Download any one of the Deb packages:

# less than 1.18.0
cd /usr/src/gtest
sudo cmake .
sudo make
sudo cp libgtest.a /usr/lib
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="client">

cd /usr/src/gmock
sudo cmake .
sudo make
sudo cp libgmock.a /usr/lib
```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client@
```

4. Compile the Pulsar client library for C++ inside the Pulsar repository.
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="client-devel">

```shell
cd pulsar-client-cpp
cmake .
make
```bash
wget @pulsar:deb:client-devel@
```

After you install the components successfully, the files `libpulsar.so` and `libpulsar.a` are in the `lib` folder of the repository. The tools `perfProducer` and `perfConsumer` are in the `perf` directory.

### Install Dependencies

> > Since 2.1.0 release, Pulsar ships pre-built RPM and Debian packages. You can download and install those packages directly.

Author: It seems outdated for build from source. Or at least I don't know what is this section for. Please confirm @BewareMyPower.

Reviewer 3: Yes. We can remove this section. https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp#compilation is intended for developers that want to build from source.

```bash
sudo yum -y install gcc automake autoconf libtool make
sudo yum -y install gcc-c++
```

### Install Debian

1. Download a Debian package from the links in the table.

| Link | Crypto files |
|------|--------------|
| [client](@pulsar:deb:client@) | [asc](@pulsar:dist_deb:client@.asc), [sha512](@pulsar:dist_deb:client@.sha512) |
| [client-devel](@pulsar:deb:client-devel@) | [asc](@pulsar:dist_deb:client-devel@.asc),  [sha512](@pulsar:dist_deb:client-devel@.sha512) |
### Source

2. Install the package using the following command.
1. Clone the Pulsar repository and switch to the working directory `pulsar-client-cpp`:

```bash
apt install ./apache-pulsar-client*.deb
git clone https://github.com/apache/pulsar
cd pulsar
cd pulsar-client-cpp
```

After you install DEB successfully, Pulsar libraries are in the `/usr/lib` directory.

### Build

If you want to build RPM and Debian packages from the latest master, follow the instructions below. You must run all the instructions at the root directory of your cloned Pulsar repository.

There are recipes that build RPM and Debian packages containing a

> statically linked `libpulsar.so` / `libpulsarnossl.so` / `libpulsar.a` / `libpulsarwithdeps.a` with all required dependencies.

Author: We don't really want it to show in the user-facing documentation. It can be now hosted in `pulsar-client-cpp/README.md` or somewhere in the codebase and later part of developer guide.

Author: I think the latest version is now included at https://github.com/apache/pulsar/blob/master/wiki/release/release-process.md#31-build-rpm-and-deb-packages.

Reviewer 3: I agree.

> # libgtest-dev version is 1.18.0 or above

Reviewer 6: Do users of this c++ client need gtest? Or only developers of the c++ client itself need it?

Author: Good point. I suppose only the client developers should build with test. Don't know whether we have a hard dependency in release mode. cc @BewareMyPower

Reviewer 5: We can use `-DBUILD_TESTS=OFF` to disable that

Author: @merlimat Thanks for your information! I made this commit https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17580/commits/2e9a946840194b6f46e39e1b75c0887c956cfe2d for excluding tests. Please take a look.
